# Object Edge Detector In Pixel Graphics

This application was created as a semestreal project on Charles University, Faculty of Mathematics and Physics in winter semester 2024/25 for Multimedia Retrieval lecture (NDBI034).

Main goal of the project is to create a picture where edges of objects are detected from given picture using algorithmical approach.

## Project structure

The main directory contains apart of this README these items:

- ```ObjectEdgeDetectorInPixelGraphics``` folder which contains the Java with Maven project itself and is its root directory.
- ```ImagesCreatedInTesting``` folder which contains interesting images (in my opinion) that were created when working on this project (some are not replicable on final version).
- ```specifikace_projektu.pdf``` which is article-like pdf file with initial specification of the project (before it was started). This file is only in Czech.
- ```vyhodnoceni_projektu.pdf``` which contains my sumarisation of the final project and evaluates the initial specification. This file is also only in Czech.
- ```.gitignore``` internal git repository file.

## Using the program

### Prerequisities

The program was created using **Java** version 17.0.7. It should run on this version without problems.
Other versions weren't tested but the version certainly have to be changed at least in ```pom.xml```  in ```properties``` section.

The program is intended to be used with **Apache Maven**. 
Version 3.9.9 was used to test compilation process.

To use this program users need to have a distribution of **OpenCV** on their computer.
OpenCV can be downloaded from [official website](https://opencv.org/releases/).
Version 4.9.0 was used during developement and it is specified in ```pom.xml```.
Downloaded files need to be extracted and their location needs to be specified as a parameter in commadn which starts the program itself (see [Running the program](###running-the-program
)).

### Building the program

To run the program first compile the JAR file using command: ```mvn clean package``` in the Java project root directory (/ObjectEdgeDetectorInPixelGraphics).
This command creates ```ObjectEdgeDetectorInPixelGraphics-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar``` file which will be later used to run the program.

### Running the program

After the JAR file is created the program proper is started in the Java project root directory (/ObjectEdgeDetectorInPixelGraphics) by using command: ```java -Djava.library.path="[1]" -cp "[2];[3]" [4]```.

Command parts description:
1. Instead of the first mark add: ```-Djava.library.path="/path/to/opencv/build/java/x64"```. This adds the library file to the project. ```/path/to/opencv``` should be replaced with the actual path on your computer to folder where OpenCV is. ```/build/java/x64``` part should be path to java_opencv490.dll file inside OpenCV folder. This should **not** be replaced.
2. Similarly instead of the second mark add: ```"/path/to/opencv/build/java/opencv-490.jar;```. Replace ```/path/to/opencv``` with the same path as above. This leads to OpenCV JAR file needed to run the program.
3. The third mark replace with: ```target/ObjectEdgeDetectorInPixelGraphics-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar"```. This should **not** be changed. If command is used from Java project root directory (/ObjectEdgeDetectorInPixelGraphics) than the path to the JAR file is correct.
4. The fourth mark replace with: ```cz.mff.cuni.simekja7.objectedgedetectorinpixelgraphics.ObjectEdgeDetectorInPixelGraphics``` which is also correct without a change. It specifies path to main class to the program.

On my computer (Windows) the whole command looks like this: ```java -Djava.library.path="C:/opencv/build/java/x64" -cp "C:/opencv/build/java/opencv-490.jar;target/ObjectEdgeDetectorInPixelGraphics-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar" cz.mff.cuni.simekja7.objectedgedetectorinpixelgraphics.ObjectEdgeDetectorInPixelGraphics```.

## Documentation

This document partly serves as a programers documentation in combination with the generated documentation described [bellow](###-generated-documentation).

### User documentation

TODO

### Generated documentation

This project contains generated documentation of Java Maven project. 
It isn't included in project itself but can be generated by using command: ```mvn javadoc:javadoc``` in the Java project root directory (/ObjectEdgeDetectorInPixelGraphics).

After the generating is finished the documentation is located in ```/target/site/apidocs``` and is accessed via ```index.html``` for example in any web browser.

The documentation contains brief descriptions of classes, methods and other components.


